There's a lot of discussion topics in
our forum about how you track your
progress. Now, there's people who use
calipers. There's guys who are using uh
body impedance scales where you stand on
a scale and there's uh kind of
electrodes on the bottom of the scale.
You step on them and there's a front to
back and then sometimes there's uh
current generating handles that'll
basically send current through your body
to determine how much lean mass or or
body fat there is. These things aren't
very uh accurate. In fact, you can test
their accuracy by doing doing the test
and it'll tell you what your percentage
body fat is and then percentage lean
mass because it's estimating how much
bone you have, organs, whatever. and
then you can drink 16 ounces of water
and it'll tell you you immediately
gained a pound of muscle. Uh the same is
true with DEXA scans which people always
like to say are super accurate. I think
they think they're super accurate
because they're super expensive. Uh so
no, they're not really accurate and um
really the best way is just looking in
the mirror. I know I know also
previously I want to mention I liked the
military body fat test which just takes
some circumference measurements and then
took those from uh I think it was like
thou like tens of thousands of US
soldiers and then compared that to data
we had for DEXA of the same people data
they had and uh then built sort of a
lookup table. The problem with that is
more recently there's been some research
that shows it's accurate for those
people who were in the study based on
what the equation was built on. But
after that it really wasn't all that
accurate. So here's the best way. Take
pictures of yourself in the mirror and
just look at you know like and I don't
do it all do it every day. do it maybe
once per week or once per month. So, you
can really see like, am I getting
leaner? Am I getting stronger? Am I
getting bigger? Are muscles looking more
defined? Like, am I am I starting to see
definition like right here? Uh or is
that definition not changing? Like for
me, like I want to, you know, see a
deeper cut here. I want to see a bigger
shadow. But uh also keep in mind that
you need to take that picture in the
same place with the same lighting over
and over and over again cuz lighting
changes everything. Like I have great
lighting here. I look absolutely
incredible. But if somebody shined a
light directly on me, all this
definition would just be invisible. So
uh keep that in mind. And pictures in a
mirror.
Now, you don't learn your percentage
body fat, but talking about your
percentage body fat is really something
that people like to do on the internet
for absolutely no reason. Uh, you want
to know you're making progress. You want
to know you're getting better. That's
it. That's all that counts.